Plan of work 2021 (#897)
HSF/hsf.github.io: organization/planning/plan-of-work-2021.md

---
title: HSF Plans for 2021
author: Graeme Stewart
layout: plain_toc
---

## Preamble

> *In the first few meetings of 2021 the HSF established some high-level

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* In the first few meetings of 2021 the HSF established some high-level
```

Reviewer: Suggesting the trivial extra space as otherwise I believe MD will not itemize properly.

plans and goals for 2021. While none of these are cast in stone, we
remain agile to adapt to new opportunities and circumstances throughout
the year, they are a useful guide to our activities.*

> *We encourage experiments and projects to take a look at these and

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* We encourage experiments and projects to take a look at these and
```

we welcome any suggestions about how to make the HSF more effective
and useful for HEP.*

## Overall Activity and Coordination

> *Reference: 7 January 2021 [slides](https://indico.cern.ch/event/981562/contributions/4134317/attachments/2167697/3693851/HSF%202020-2021%20Review%20and%20Planning.pdf) 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* Reference: 7 January 2021 [slides](https://indico.cern.ch/event/981562/contributions/4134317/attachments/2167697/3693851/HSF%202020-2021%20Review%20and%20Planning.pdf) 
```

Reviewer: Sorry, this one is correct since made italic. Please reject the suggestion.

and [meeting minutes](/organization/2021/01/07/coordination.html).*

### Meeting Series

* Continue with regular [coordination meetings](/meetings/coordination.html) every 2 weeks (on the odd-numbered weeks of the year by default).

> * Monthly [*Software and Computing Roundtable*](/meetings/roundtable.html) is an ideal place to speak to the Nuclear Physics community (BNL and JLab co-organise), but we should make sure the series is known to not be only NP and is more widely known.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* Monthly [*Software and Computing Roundtable*](/meetings/roundtable.html) is an ideal place to speak to the Nuclear Physics community (BNL and JLab co-organise), but we should make sure the series is known to not only NP and is more widely known.
```

Author: I adopted an overall clearer phrasing now.

* Also monthly, the [Compute Accelerator Forum](/meetings/compute-accelerator-forum.html) made a very good start last year and attracts a lot of interest - good that it's co-organised with SIDIS and openlab.

### Workshops

* Although we had two successful workshops in 2020, there is a real sense of zoom-fatigue in the community.
  * Therefore we will not organise any large workshops in the first half of 2021.
  * There is a slot for a possible workshop at the end of September (w/b 27 Sept), but we don't yet take a firm decision on that.

* We will consider more 'one-shot' mini-workshops that cover topics which bridge between working groups, e.g., I/O matters that touch analysis, frameworks and facilities.

### Organisational Engagement

> * We already have quite a long list of organisations with which we have a link or some engagement (see slide 11).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* We already have quite a long list of organisations with which we have a link or some engagement (see slide 11) of the presentation above.
```

* Areas of common interest (in general these are topics related to HL-LHC and off-LHC experiments, LHC Run 3 R&D is basically closed):
  * ML for and its integration into production code
    * Machine learning frameworks for performant inference engines in real-time supporting various hardware backends (possible links to fastML, clariphy, ...)
    * make the step from conceptual studies to production code integration
  * Alignment / calibration 
    * points of collaboration on "sharp knife" tools
  * Particle flow
    * was initially planned in last term but did not materialize
  * Event data formats and geometry (overlaps with other groups)
    * great possibility to have an overlap session with simulation
  * Use of heterogeneous architectures
    * establish small scale demonstrators outside the experiments' structure
    * investigate inclusion of common HEP reconstruction & trigger packages into such systems

* Establish closer link to training group, expanding from pure technical training
  *  e.g.: general introduction to HEP triggers and reconstruction and introduction to the methods used; can training be done on little demonstrators:

>     *  ALLEN demonstrator of mixing CPU/GPU algorithm

Reviewer 2: Suggest instead: Allen demonstrator of multi-event scheduling framework for GPUs, allowing to interleave CPU and GPU algorithms, and to compile
```suggestion
    *  ALLEN demonstrator of multi-event scheduling framework for GPUs, allowing to interleave host(CPU) and device(CPU / AMD GPU / Nvidia GPU) algorithms, where the device type is chosen at compile time (same source code for all device types)
```

    *  Patatrack, ACTS etc. on OpenDataDetector
* Help integrating common packages into turn-key demonstrator projects
  * natural connection: CERN EP-R&D turn-key  (Key4hep)
* Short, one-day workshops on specific topic, with possible overlap between HSF working groups:
  * trigger/reconstruction & simulation (fast MC initiatives, EDM/Geometry)
  * trigger/reconstruction & analysis (no clear boundaries)
* **Next Steps**
  * Talk to trigger & reco conveners of experiments
    * last survey is ~1.5 years old
  * Talk to computing projects of experiments
  * Make sure to include non-LHC experiments

### PyHEP

* **PyHEP 2021 workshop:**
  * Date to be decided. Likely just after SciPy 2021, which takes place as a virtual event on July 12-18.
* **Topical meetings:**

>   * Remember that we will do a kind of "Python module of the month", by default the first Wednesday of each month at 16h CET.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  * We are running this year a kind of "Python module of the month" meeting, by default the first Wednesday of each month at 16h CET.
```

Reviewer: The suggestion above reads better as planning.
